BASIC COMMANDS OF LINUX:


1. cmd:passwd <userid>
       It is used to change the password.It also allows us to give password which has been already used previously.
               
2. cmd:pwd
       It displays the present working directory.And it stands for print working directory.

3. cmd:whoami
       It tells about the user who is working in currrent directory.

4. cmd:cd \
       It goes back to root node.

5. cmd:cd ..
       This command will take back to one folder or directory.

6. cmd:cd <foder-name>
       It goes to specified folder.And CD stands for change directory.It allows to move round directories.

7. cmd:su <user-name>
      SU stands for switch user.It switches from current user to specified user.
   cmd:su -
      It switch from current user to root.

8. cmd:ls
       LS stands for list.It lists all the files present in the current directory in a linear fashion i.e in rows.
            Hidden files are always start with ".".This command is doesn't display the hidden files.

9. cmd:ls -l
       -l is an extension added to ls,to display the lists in line by line fashion.It shows all the details of each file clearly and
  seperately.

10. cmd:clear
       The command clear is used to refresh or erase the previously executed commands in the terminal.

11. cmd:touch <file-name>
       It creates an empty file in the current working directory.The file may be with or without extension.We can create multiple
           fiels at a time.
    Ex:
         touch file1 file2 file3

12. cmd:ls -a
      It lists all files including hidden files.We can also add extension "l" to it,so that it lists the files including hidden files
         line by line.No matter about the order either it is "ls -la" or "ls -al" it performs same operation.

13. cmd:ls *
         By using * we are able to see the subdirectory files as well.

14. cmd:ls -R
         It recursively diplay the files along with its sub directories.

15. cmd:ls -s
         The size of the each file also be diplayed.

16. Actually the file size is not that much cleared which is displayed.For more clarity we have to convert into human readability 
      form.For that we use human readable command called "ls -lh"
   cmd:ls -lh
         Its diplays the file size in human readble form i.e in KB's MB's etc.

17. cmd:ls -r
     It reverses the sequence of lists.We can combination all like"ls -lsr","ls -lr" etc...
        Each can done its own action. Finally displayed contents is combination of all actions.

18. cmd:ls -t
     In this the files are sorted according to their  time.

19. cmd:ls -ltr
        Here we combine all three extensions,that displays the reverse order of sorting files according to time line by line.

20. cmd:ls -l <file-name/something>*
         It diplays all the files which are start with specified file-name/something.
      

